---
title: "April 2020 Experiment - Cold Showers"
date: 2020-04-07T16:36:35-04:00
author: Milosz Kowal
draft: false
tags: ["experiments"]
---

# Objective

Cold showers are shown to be quite good for you, helping you sleep, improving circulation, and so on. I want to spend every day this month taking a cold shower. Now, I don't have a thermometer to measure the water, but not using the warm setting on the shower
seems to be a safe bet when dealing with this.

## Day 7: 2020-04-07

I still haven't gotten used to it, but I found that a lot of it is simply mind over matter. During last night's shower, I realized that my primitive ancestors have taken their baths in cold streams and that heat was a luxury for them. Taking heat for granted is a
folly of modern man, so it would be best for us to forgo that every once in a while.

I also realized that part of the motivation behind this experiment is monetary: a cold shower is signficantly cheaper than a warm one.

# Conclusion

Overall, the experiment was a partial success. About halfway through, I switched from taking just cold showers to taking a "James Bond" shower, where I wash with warm water, but then rinse off with ice-cold water. That works a _lot_ better then the other option, where I just wash with cold water - I was concerned that I would not wash properly with just cold water, and my fiancée has corroborated that (oops). This is something I will continue moving forward, as the cold water is rejuvenating, and I think it helps me sleep better, elthough I have no data to support that conclusion.
