---
title: "February 2020 - No YouTube"
date: 2020-02-01T09:12:22-05:00
author: Milosz Kowal
draft: false
tags: ['experiment']
---

## About the Monthly Experiment Project

I enjoy doing monthly experiments on myself, just to see if I can do it. Most of these experiments will involve depriving myself of something that I previously enjoy, but I know doesn't serve me in the long-term. Sometimes, the experiment will be scurrying to create something in a month. Either way, the experiments page will serve as a log of my findings and some other observations.

## Objective

Abstain from watching YouTube videos of any kind, on any platform.

## Method

Leverage Pihole to block YouTube on my devices, and use blocking in the hosts file to block it as well.

## Observations

### Day 1: 2020-02-01

Failed in the sense that I opened up the website, but didn't watch anything. For some reason, the hosts file block stopped working. Issue has since been resolved.

### Day 7: 2020-02-07

The only YouTube I've been watching is the Microsoft channel's introduction to Kubernetes. And I've only been watching that at work, so I'm not counting that as a fail.

### Day 11: 2020-02-11

I've noticed that my "need" for YouTube has been filled by other websites, namely Mr. Money Mustache. I've started paying attention to the websites I visit, and I will hopefully be able to catch them and block them as they arise. This is turning into more of a "no pointless internet browsing" experiment.

### Day 17: 2020-02-17

I've noticed cravings. There are a few channels that I enjoy watching, but I know are not good for me (like WtiiWarcraft, Sargon of Akkad, etc.). I *enjoy* watching them, but they're not necessarily good for my brain, much like McDonald's is very tasty, but not good for my body. I can only imagine how terrible addicts must feel during withdrawal, if this is even 1/100 of that feeling.
