---
title: "March 2020 - Michael Pollan's Food Rules"
date: 2020-03-01T18:24:28-04:00
author: Milosz Kowal
draft: false
$tags: ['experiment']
---

## Objective

Lent is usually a time when people give up certain foods. My father-in-law always gives up ice cream. So I thought to myself to take this one step further and follow Michael Pollan's Food Rules. For a quick and dirty summary of the rules, see [here](https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2012/05/11/food-rules-a-shortcut-to-better-health/) and [here](https://liveyourlegend.net/michael-pollans-top-14-food-rules-to-healthy-eating/).

## Method

Read labels on foods, and internalize the rules. If necessary, refer to them in cases of doubt and before some meals.

## Observations

### Day 8: 2020-03-08

This is *hard*. So many foods have a sweetener in the top three ingredients. This is by far the hardest rule to follow. Rules like shopping the outside of the supermarket, saving meat for a treat, and eating my colors come easy by comparison. So many of my foods, though, have some kind of sweetener in the top three ingredients, and it's hard to abstain from them, as they make regular food boring (hot sauces are notorious for this). I'm tempted to relax the rules to allow for sauces, but that would defeat the purpose of the experiment. So I'm going to stick to not doing that.

### Day 23: 2020-03-23

I will already mark this experiment as failed. But that doesn't mean that I failed.

This is similar to the discussion of "deep work." Removing distractions (physically, mentally, and technologically) is one of the core tenets of deep work. The same can be said for the food rules - let's call this practice "deep eating." I don't have chips or ice cream at my house because I know I will eat them. My mother-in-law however, has ice cream at her house - and I'm always compelled to eat some.

This has been a testament that my will is pretty weak, so it becomes a necessity to strengthen that will somehow.

### Final assessment

Overall, these rules are a *lot* harder to follow than I initially thought, but I definitely see the appeal. The problem with the American way of living isn't the sedentary nature (although that's a huge problem too), it's the very poor nutrition. Solving that 
problem through these food rules will solve the obesity epidemic in the United States, I'm sure of it. 

Personally, I have a long way to go in evaluating my relationship with food to ensure that what I put in my body (and when) is the best in terms of long-term performance.
